README.md, before:

# Gemini Web UI

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13%2B-blue)
[![CI/CD Pipeline](https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui/actions/workflows/ci-cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui/actions/workflows/ci-cd.yml)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-GitHub%20Pages-blue)](https://thesfinox.github.io/gemini-cli-webui/)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui)

**Gemini Web UI** is a lightweight, elegant, and powerful web interface for Google’s Gemini models, built on top of the robust `gemini-cli`.

Powered by [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/), this application provides a user-friendly chat interface that bridges the gap between the command line and a full graphical experience. It is designed for developers, researchers, and power users who want to leverage the capabilities of Gemini with the convenience of session management, file context handling, and visual interaction.

## 🎯 Objective

The primary goal of this project is to provide a seamless visual layer over the `gemini-cli` tool. While the CLI is excellent for automation and quick tasks, `gemini-webui` enhances the workflow by offering:

- **Persistent Session Management**: Easily switch between multiple active conversations.
- **Visual Context Management**: Drag-and-drop file uploads and clipboard image pasting.
- **Rich Text Rendering**: Markdown support for code blocks, tables, and mathematical formulas.

## ✨ Features

- **💬 Interactive Chat**: A familiar chat interface with full Markdown support.
- **🗂️ Session Management**: Create, rename (auto-generated titles), and delete sessions.
- **📂 Context Awareness**:
  - **File Uploads**: Upload documents and code files to be included in the context.
  - **Clipboard Integration**: Paste images directly from your clipboard for multimodal analysis.
  - **Context Management**: View and remove active context files easily.
- **📜 History Tracking**: Local history storage ensures you can pick up where you left off.
- **🎨 Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design with a collapsible sidebar for better focus.

## 🛠️ Prerequisites

Before running the application, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.13+**
- **[gemini-cli](https://github.com/google/gemini-cli)**: The core engine powering this UI.

  ```bash
  npm install -g @google/gemini-cli
  ```

Set up your Gemini API credentials as per the [`gemini-cli`](https://geminicli.com/docs/get-started/authentication/) documentation.

## 🚀 Installation

### For Users (Recommended)

The easiest way to install and run `gemini-webui` is using `pipx`. This ensures the application runs in an isolated environment without conflicting with other Python packages.

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui.git
```

Once installed, you can run the application from anywhere:

```bash
gemini-webui
```

### For Developers

If you want to contribute or modify the code, we recommend using `uv` for fast dependency management.

1. **Clone the repository**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui.git
    cd gemini-webui
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**:

    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```

3. **Run the application**:

    ```bash
    uv run gemini-webui
    ```

## 💻 Usage

To start the web interface, run:

```bash
gemini-webui
```

The application will open in your default web browser at `http://localhost:8501`.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on how to report bugs, suggest features, and submit pull requests.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- Built with [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/).
- Powered by [Google Gemini](https://deepmind.google/technologies/gemini/).

Commit message:

docs: add network serving instructions and bump version to v0.0.5

README.md, after:

# Gemini Web UI

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13%2B-blue)
[![CI/CD Pipeline](https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui/actions/workflows/ci-cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui/actions/workflows/ci-cd.yml)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-GitHub%20Pages-blue)](https://thesfinox.github.io/gemini-cli-webui/)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui)

**Gemini Web UI** is a lightweight, elegant, and powerful web interface for Google’s Gemini models, built on top of the robust `gemini-cli`.

Powered by [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/), this application provides a user-friendly chat interface that bridges the gap between the command line and a full graphical experience. It is designed for developers, researchers, and power users who want to leverage the capabilities of Gemini with the convenience of session management, file context handling, and visual interaction.

## 🎯 Objective

The primary goal of this project is to provide a seamless visual layer over the `gemini-cli` tool. While the CLI is excellent for automation and quick tasks, `gemini-webui` enhances the workflow by offering:

- **Persistent Session Management**: Easily switch between multiple active conversations.
- **Visual Context Management**: Drag-and-drop file uploads and clipboard image pasting.
- **Rich Text Rendering**: Markdown support for code blocks, tables, and mathematical formulas.

## ✨ Features

- **💬 Interactive Chat**: A familiar chat interface with full Markdown support.
- **🗂️ Session Management**: Create, rename (auto-generated titles), and delete sessions.
- **📂 Context Awareness**:
  - **File Uploads**: Upload documents and code files to be included in the context.
  - **Clipboard Integration**: Paste images directly from your clipboard for multimodal analysis.
  - **Context Management**: View and remove active context files easily.
- **📜 History Tracking**: Local history storage ensures you can pick up where you left off.
- **🎨 Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design with a collapsible sidebar for better focus.

## 🛠️ Prerequisites

Before running the application, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.13+**
- **[gemini-cli](https://github.com/google/gemini-cli)**: The core engine powering this UI.

  ```bash
  npm install -g @google/gemini-cli
  ```

Set up your Gemini API credentials as per the [`gemini-cli`](https://geminicli.com/docs/get-started/authentication/) documentation.

## 🚀 Installation

### For Users (Recommended)

The easiest way to install and run `gemini-webui` is using `pipx`. This ensures the application runs in an isolated environment without conflicting with other Python packages.

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui.git
```

Once installed, you can run the application from anywhere:

```bash
gemini-webui
```

### For Developers

If you want to contribute or modify the code, we recommend using `uv` for fast dependency management.

1. **Clone the repository**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/thesfinox/gemini-cli-webui.git
    cd gemini-webui
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**:

    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```

3. **Run the application**:

    ```bash
    uv run gemini-webui
    ```

## 💻 Usage

To start the web interface, run:

```bash
gemini-webui
```

The application will open in your default web browser at `http://localhost:8501`.

To serve the application on the local network, use the `--server.address` flag:

```bash
gemini-webui --server.address=0.0.0.0
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on how to report bugs, suggest features, and submit pull requests.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

- Built with [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/).
- Powered by [Google Gemini](https://deepmind.google/technologies/gemini/).
